Egypt's Rafa border crossing is gaza's
only exit route not controlled by Israel
on Monday morning crowds trying to leave
Gaza gathered at the Crossing The
Crossing lies in the south of Gaza on
the border with Egypt's Sinai Peninsula
it's controlled by Egypt which along
with Israel imposed a tight blockade
after the militant group Hamas took
control of Gaza in 2007 restricting the
movement of people and goods into and
out of the territory as well as being
used by people to leave and enter Gaza
the Rafa border crossing is also used to
deliver commercial products food and
humanitarian Aid gaza's other two border
crossings are controlled by Israel Aras
in the north which is used by people and
kamam shalom in the South which is used
for goods both have been shut by Israel
since Hamas launched an unprecedented
attack on Southern Israel on the 7th of
October the rest of Gaza is surrounded
by heavily fortified fences and walls
running along the Israeli and Egyptian
borders and the Sea around Gaza is also
controlled by the Israeli Navy